# compound interest visualiser

#### Video Demo: <https://youtu.be/Ob10_Q9d02E>

#### Me:
Dom, Lewes, UK https://www.linkedin.com/in/ddomhall/

#### Description:
I've wanted to make a compound interest visualizer for a while now and I will upgrade it further once I have more skill working with databases to allow people to put in their actual returns so they can see them next to the projection. I'll be using this to track my finances against the expected values of my investments throughout my lifetime. I'll publish it online in case others would do the same and I'll also add it to my portfolio site when I make it. It's got my usual logo and footer already to syncronise with the everything else I've built.
I initially included the session pieces from the finance pset but once I realised I wasn't going to be able to add the ability to input their own returns, it made more set to leave it as a single page. There was a logout button as well as an add actuals button above and below the form and the login/register and homepages all had the same layout so that they can be cycled through without moving the mouse as well as a nice looking design that seamlessly flows through each page.
I struggled a lot with matplotlib, it's my first time using it and it took a while to get it how I wanted it with the colours, axis, ticks and labels, the only thing I would change is to put the exact date that you reach your target instead of the closest round numbers. It's definitely a useful skill for the future though as data analysis is in behind and there's far more to the library that I haven't learnt yet. I still need to add a second line which might not be as easy as it seems. Bar charts would be the next step although they're probably easier than line and then there's some crazy cyclical ones that I have no idea what they're for but they look cool.
The compounding calculations were also difficult, I initially tried formulas that I found online which never seemed to work so I dropped the idea of adding annual contributions and just allowed monthly ones, adding 1/12 of the annual return for every iteration. I was quite happy with my plan, as I have the initial value and month from the form inputs, and then I add a month and a months worth of value respectively until the last element in the list reaches the target value. This means I have a complete log of every months values that I can use to map on a line chart and create a nice smooth line. I'll use the same thing for inputing actuals, I'll need a textbox that allows you to put in a value for each month, honestly working it out as I type this as I don't know how many months will be needed to reach the final target so I'll need to have one input that acts as a gate to the SQL database. Each row will need a month and a value so it won't matter if some are missed as I'll simply map all the dates against all the values sorted with no rows allowed to be empty. I still need to work out what to do with the changes in pay as the underlying projection needs to change as otherwise your actuals will be increased and not match the contributions defined in the baseline.

